# AI Promoters' Responses to Quality Questions

A certain percentage (most?) of AI promotion is generated by template-based sales bots that apply common salesman techniques. This list is empirical research on their **script** when raising issues about _quality_.

I have categorised the responses.

## Banal Ad hominems

*Ad hominem* responses take things on a personal level, turning the conversation from the matter at hand towards the person who is arguing back.

- *"You need to be open minded"*
- *"You are living in the past"*
- *"You are lazy and don't follow progress"*
- *"You are afraid of progress"* (this is a popular one)
- *"Denialists like you are the cause of lack of progress"*

It is notable that sales bots have no face to lose, because they can change face. So, they commonly get nasty and try to push your buttons and to drag you into a personal level quarrel.

## Smokescreen Responses

Smokescreen responses ignore the question and try to divert the conversation to something else. Typically, they divert the conversation from quality (AI weakness) to some AI strength.

- *"Look at **this** graph/data"* (instead)
- *"Famous person F is using AI"*
  - *"Linus Torvalds promotes AI"* (he doesn't)
- *"Progress requires failure"*
  - This response implies anything new is good even when its bad
  - *"Einstein (Mozart, Newton...) would have never discovered relativity if he never made mistakes"*
- *"That was the situation last year"*
  - This response implies that the speaker is better at following latest trends 
  - Allows selling consulting services
- *"The technology is here to stay"*
  - This response relies on the fact that discovered technologies don't go backwards.
  - However, this does not imply that any AI promises come true.

## Blame-shifting Responses 

- *"Skill issue"*
    - This response shifts blame on the AI user
    - This response is usually hurled at senior programmers by people who have never been programmers or are at maximum junior level.
    - Allows selling consulting services
- *"You need to buy the MAX subscription"*
    - This response assumes that you are only using a free version of the AI solution in question, and asks for more investment.
    - Allows selling more services
- *"Your architecture isn't good enough"*
    - In software development, bad architecture is a common cause for bad overall functionality, and thus provides a window for the AI promoter to shift blame.
    - Allows selling consulting services
